You have probably heard the name Alexa regardless of whether or not you own an Amazon device.
Alexa is the name you call out when you have a question when using an Amazon Echo device or Alexa-enabled
speaker.
Alexa is the virtual assistant with a female voice created by Amazon that allows you to talk in a conversational
manner.
It assists you in performing day-to-day tasks such as playing music, controlling smartphone gadgets, giving the
ability to dim lights, lock doors or adjusting your thermostat. Even though you associate Alexa with
products like the Amazon Echo or Fire TV Cube,
You can't actually go out and buy an Alexa.
Most people associate Alexa as the name of the voice that comes out of the Alexa-enabled
speakers. Essentially Alexa is to Amazon as what Siri is to Apple or what the Google Assistant
is to Google.
Alexa is the voice you can ask questions and get answers to such as What is the weather today.
However under the covers it goes a little deeper than that.
When you communicate with Alexa you are communicating with a cloud based service.
This is actually the Alexa Voice Service which was created by Amazon and is an intelligent voice
recognition and natural language processing service that allows you to voice enable any connected device
that has a microphone and a speaker.
Alexa is simply the wake word that alerts the service to start listening to your voice by default, although
this can be changed. In order to extend the capabilities of Alexa, Amazon has made available to developers
and programmers the Alexa Skills Kit. The Alexa Skills Kit is a collection of self-service APIs, tools, documentation
and code that makes it easy to create new skills for Alexa. Skills enable customers to create a personalized
experience.
There are now tens of thousands of skills from companies like Starbucks, Uber, Capital One and many other
companies.
The great news is the ability to create a new skill for Alexa is now available to anyone. Using a voice
user interface and the capabilities of the Alexa Voice Service,
the possibilities are endless for developers.